Scheduler: add code snippet related to appointmentTooltipTemplate (#4802)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/10 UI Components/dxScheduler/1 Configuration/appointmentTooltipTemplate.md

Specifies whether you click a button or an appointment element.

---

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->
    $(() => {
        const scheduler = $('#schedulerContainer').dxScheduler({
            appointmentTooltipTemplate(data, cell) {
                const tooltip = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item">');

>                 // NOTE: You can get color from resources with data.appointmentData.resouceId

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                // NOTE: You can use data.appointmentData.resouceId to obtain resource color
```

                tooltip.append(marker);
                tooltip.append(content);

            const isAppointmentDisabled = data.appointmentData.disabled;
            const isDeleteAllowed = (scheduler.option('editing') && scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
              || scheduler.option('editing') === true;

            if(!isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed) {
                    const buttonContainer = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button-container">');
                    const button = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button">').dxButton({
                        icon: 'trash',
                        stylingMode: 'text',
                        onClick(e) {
                            scheduler.deleteAppointment(data.appointmentData);
                            e.event.stopPropagation();
                            scheduler.hideAppointmentTooltip();
                        }
                    });

                    buttonContainer.append(button);
                    tooltip.append(buttonContainer);
                }

                return tooltip;

>             },

Reviewer 2: Wrong formatting:

```suggestion
            appointmentTooltipTemplate(data, cell) {
                const tooltip = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item">');

                // NOTE: You can get color from resources with data.appointmentData.resouceId
                const markerColor = '#337ab7';
                const markerBody = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker-body">').css('background', markerColor);
                const marker = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker">').append(markerBody);
                const content = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content">')
                    .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-subject">').text(data.appointmentData.text))
                    .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-date">').text(data.appointmentData.startDate));

                tooltip.append(marker);
                tooltip.append(content);

                const isAppointmentDisabled = data.appointmentData.disabled;
                const isDeleteAllowed = (scheduler.option('editing') && scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
                    || scheduler.option('editing') === true;

                if (!isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed) {
                    const buttonContainer = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button-container">');
                    const button = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button">').dxButton({
                        icon: 'trash',
                        stylingMode: 'text',
                        onClick(e) {
                            scheduler.deleteAppointment(data.appointmentData);
                            e.event.stopPropagation();
                            scheduler.hideAppointmentTooltip();
                        }
                    });

                    buttonContainer.append(button);
                    tooltip.append(buttonContainer);
                }

                return tooltip;
            },
```

                [appointmentData]="data.appointmentData"
                [isDeleteButtonExist]="isDeleteButtonExist(data)"
                [markerColor]="#337ab7"
                (onDeleteButtonClick)="onDeleteButtonClick($event, data.appointmentData)"
            ></Tooltip>
        </ng-container>
    </dx-scheduler>

    <!-- tab: app.components.ts -->
    export class AppComponent {
        @ViewChild("targetScheduler", { static: true })
        scheduler: DxSchedulerComponent;
    
        constructor(private service: Service) {}

        onDeleteButtonClick(e: ClickEvent, appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment): void {
            this.scheduler.instance.deleteAppointment(appointmentData);
            e.event.stopPropagation();
            this.scheduler.instance.hideAppointmentTooltip();
        }
    
        isDeleteButtonExist({ appointmentData }: { appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment}): boolean {
            const schedulerInstance = this.scheduler.instance;
            const isAppointmentDisabled = appointmentData.disabled;
            const isDeleteAllowed = (schedulerInstance.option('editing') && schedulerInstance.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)

>             || schedulerInstance.option('editing') === true;

Reviewer 2: Formatting. Let's add ```tab``` here:

```suggestion
                || schedulerInstance.option('editing') === true;
```

            class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button-container"
        >
            <dx-button
                class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button"
                icon="trash"
                stylingMode="text"
                (onClick)="onDeleteButtonClick.emit($event)"
            ></dx-button>
        </div>
    </div>

    <!-- tab: tooltip.components.ts -->
    @Component({
        selector: "Tooltip",
        templateUrl: "./tooltip.component.html"
    })
    export class TooltipComponent {
        @Input() appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment;
        @Input() markerColor: string;
        @Input() isDeleteButtonExist: boolean;
        @Output() onDeleteButtonClick = new EventEmitter<ClickEvent>();
    }

    @NgModule({
        imports: [DxButtonModule, CommonModule],
        declarations: [TooltipComponent],
        exports: [TooltipComponent]
    })

    export class TooltipModule {}

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxScheduler
            :ref="schedulerRefKey"
            ...
            appointment-tooltip-template="appointmentTooltipTemplate"
        >
            <template #appointmentTooltipTemplate="{ data }">

>                 <Tooltip
>                     :data="data"
>                     @delete-button-click="onDeleteButtonClick($event, data)"
>                     :markerColor="getColor(data.appointmentData.employeeID)"
>                     :isDeleteButtonExist="getDeleteButtonStatus(data)"
>                 />

Reviewer 2: Let's change these lines:
- Make the event the last property
- Change color to the constant value
- Add ```NOTE``` comment
- Change the ```getDeleteButtonStatus``` -> ```isDeleteButtonExist``` (to be consistent with other platforms)

```suggestion
      <!-- NOTE: You can get color from resources with data.appointmentData.resouceId -->
      <Tooltip
        :data="data"
        :markerColor="'#337ab7'"
        :isDeleteButtonExist="isDeleteButtonExist(data)"
        @delete-button-click="onDeleteButtonClick($event, data)"
      />
```

            </template>
        </DxScheduler>
    </template>

    <script>
    import Tooltip from './Tooltip.vue';
    const schedulerRefKey = "my-scheduler";

    export default {
        components: {
            DxScheduler,
            Tooltip
        },
        data() {
            return {
                schedulerRefKey
            };
        },
        methods:{
            onDeleteButtonClick(e, data){
                this.scheduler.deleteAppointment(data.appointmentData);
                e.event.stopPropagation();
                this.scheduler.hideAppointmentTooltip();
            },
            getColor(employeeID) {
                return employees.find((employee) => {
                    return employee.id === employeeID;
                }).color;

>             },

Reviewer 2: Let's remove ```getColor``` method:

```suggestion
```

            getDeleteButtonStatus(data) {
                function getDisabled(employeeID) {
                    return employees.find((employee) => {
                        return employee.id === employeeID;
                    }).disabled;
                }
                
                return !getDisabled(data.appointmentData.employeeID) &&
                ((this.scheduler.option("editing") &&
                this.scheduler.option("editing.allowDeleting") === true) ||
                this.scheduler.option("editing") === true)

>             }

Reviewer 2: Let's change and rename this function as we did it in other platforms:

```suggestion
isDeleteButtonExist(data) {
      const isAppointmentDisabled = data.appointmentData.disabled;
      const isDeleteAllowed = (this.scheduler.option('editing') && this.scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
              || this.scheduler.option('editing') === true;
      
      return !isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed;
    }
```

Specifies whether you click a button or an appointment element.

---

---
#####jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->
    $(() => {

>         let scheduler = $('#schedulerContainer').dxScheduler({

Reviewer 2: Let's change ```let``` to ```const```

```suggestion
        const scheduler = $('#schedulerContainer').dxScheduler({
```

            appointmentTooltipTemplate(data, cell) {
                const curResource = employees.find((resource) => resource.id === data.appointmentData.employeeID);

                const tooltip = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item">');
                const marker = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker">')
                    .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker-body">').css('background', curResource.color));
                const content = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content">')
                    .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-subject">').text(data.appointmentData.text))

>                     .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-date">').text(data.appointmentData.startDate));

Reviewer 2: Let's change these lines:

```suggestion
            const tooltip = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item">');
          
            // NOTE: You can get color from resources with data.appointmentData.resouceId
            const markerColor = '#337ab7';
            const markerBody = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker-body">').css('background', markerColor);
            const marker = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker">').append(markerBody);
            const content = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content">')
                .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-subject">').text(data.appointmentData.text))
                .append($('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-date">').text(data.appointmentData.startDate));
```

Please check text in the ```NOTE``` comment, maybe we can write this sentence better :)

                tooltip.append(marker);
                tooltip.append(content);

                const isButtonExist = !curResource.disabled && (scheduler.option('editing')
                    && scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true || scheduler.option('editing') === true);

>                 if(isButtonExist) {

Reviewer 2: It's not correct, that we took ```disabled``` from resources here.
Let's get it from appointment [Link to the docs](https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/Common/Object_Structures/dxSchedulerAppointment/#disabled):

```suggestion
            const isAppointmentDisabled = data.appointmentData.disabled;
            const isDeleteAllowed = (scheduler.option('editing') && scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
              || scheduler.option('editing') === true;

            if(!isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed) {
```

                    const buttonContainer = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button-container">');
                    const button = $('<div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button">').dxButton({
                        icon: 'trash',
                        stylingMode: 'text',
                        onClick(e) {
                            scheduler.deleteAppointment(data.appointmentData);
                            e.event.stopPropagation();
                            scheduler.hideAppointmentTooltip();
                        }
                    });

                    buttonContainer.append(button);
                    tooltip.append(buttonContainer);
                }

                return tooltip;
            },
        }).dxScheduler('instance');
    })

#####Angular

    <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
    <dx-scheduler
        #targetScheduler
        appointmentTooltipTemplate="appointmentTooltipTemplate"
    >
        <div *dxTemplate="let data of 'appointmentTooltipTemplate'">
            <Tooltip

>                 [data]="data"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                [appointmentData]="data.appointmentData"
```

                [isDeleteButtonExist]="isDeleteButtonExist(data)"
                [markerColor]="data.appointmentData.employeeID | getColor"
                (onDeleteButtonClick)="onDeleteButtonClick($event, data.appointmentData)"
            ></Tooltip>

>         </div>

Reviewer 2: Let's replace ```div``` with ```ng-container``` and get rid of color pipe here:

```suggestion
        <ng-container *dxTemplate="let data of 'appointmentTooltipTemplate'">
            <!-- NOTE: You can get color from resources with data.appointmentData.resouceId -->
            <Tooltip
                [appointmentData]="data.appointmentData"
                [isDeleteButtonExist]="isDeleteButtonExist(data)"
                [markerColor]="'#337ab7'"
                (onDeleteButtonClick)="onDeleteButtonClick($event, data.appointmentData)"
            ></Tooltip>
        </ng-container>
```

Please check text in the NOTE comment, maybe we can write this sentence better :)

    </dx-scheduler>

    <!-- tab: app.components.ts -->

>     import { TooltipModule } from "./tooltip/tooltip.component";

Reviewer 2: If we don't show the ```AppModule``` in the code snippet, this import is redundant here:

```suggestion
```

>     @Pipe({ name: "getColor" })
>     class ColorPipe implements PipeTransform {
>         constructor(private service: Service) {}
>         transform(resourceID: number): string {
>             return this.service
>                 .getEmployees()
>                 .find((employee) => employee.id === resourceID).color;
>         }
>     }

Reviewer 2: I think we can get rid of this pipe in the documentation code snippet:

```suggestion
```

    export class AppComponent {
        @ViewChild("targetScheduler", { static: true })

>         scheduler: DxSchedulerComponent;

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this blank line.
We cannot write an empty line between decorator and class property/field:

```suggestion
        @ViewChild("targetScheduler", { static: true })
        scheduler: DxSchedulerComponent;
```

Or we can write it in one line:
```suggestion
        @ViewChild("targetScheduler", { static: true }) scheduler: DxSchedulerComponent;
```

>         resourcesDataSource = this.service.getEmployees();

Reviewer 2: Let's get rid of the resourcesDataSource in this code snippet:

```suggestion
```

    
        constructor(private service: Service) {}

>         onDeleteButtonClick(e, appointmentData) {

Reviewer 2: Let's add types here:

```suggestion
        onDeleteButtonClick(e: ClickEvent, appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment): void {
```

            this.scheduler.instance.deleteAppointment(appointmentData);
            e.event.stopPropagation();
            this.scheduler.instance.hideAppointmentTooltip();
        }
    
        isDeleteButtonExist(data) {
            const isDisabled = this.resourcesDataSource.find(
                (employee) => employee.id === data.appointmentData.employeeID
            ).disabled;
            
            return (
                !isDisabled &&
                ((this.scheduler.instance.option("editing") &&
                this.scheduler.instance.option("editing.allowDeleting") === true) ||
                this.scheduler.instance.option("editing") === true)
            );
        }

>     }

Reviewer 2: Let's  change these lines like in the jQuery docs and add types:

```suggestion
  isDeleteButtonExist({ appointmentData }: { appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment}): boolean {
    const schedulerInstance = this.scheduler.instance;
    const isAppointmentDisabled = appointmentData.disabled;
    const isDeleteAllowed = (schedulerInstance.option('editing') && schedulerInstance.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
     || schedulerInstance.option('editing') === true;
    
    return !isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed;
  }
```

    <!-- tab: tooltip.component.html -->
    <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item">
        <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker">
            <div
                class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-marker-body"
                [style.background-color]="markerColor" 
            ></div>
        </div>

        <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content">
            <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content">
                <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-subject">

>                     {{data.appointmentData.text}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    {{appointmentData.text}}
```

                </div>
                <div class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-content-date">

>                     {{data.appointmentData.startDate}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                    {{appointmentData.startDate}}
```

                </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div
            *ngIf="isDeleteButtonExist"
            class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button-container"
        >
            <dx-button
                class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button"
                icon="trash"
                stylingMode="text"
                (onClick)="onDeleteButtonClick.emit($event)"
            ></dx-button>
        </div>
    </div>

    <!-- tab: tooltip.components.ts -->

>         @Component({

Reviewer 2: Wrong formatting:

```suggestion
@Component({
```

        selector: "Tooltip",
        templateUrl: "./tooltip.component.html"

>     })
> 
>     export class TooltipComponent {

Reviewer 2: Let's remove this empty line:

```suggestion
    })
    export class TooltipComponent {
```

>         @Input() data?: any;

Reviewer 2: Let's replace data with ```any``` type with ```appointmentData```:

```suggestion
        @Input() appointmentData?: dxSchedulerAppointment;
```

>         @Input() data?: any;
>         @Input() markerColor?: string;
>         @Input() isDeleteButtonExist?: boolean;

Reviewer 2: Let's get rid of the ```?``` (because we don't write it in the ```AppComponent```) and change ```data``` input:

```suggestion
        @Input() appointmentData: dxSchedulerAppointment;
        @Input() markerColor: string;
        @Input() isDeleteButtonExist: boolean;
```

        @Output() onDeleteButtonClick = new EventEmitter<ClickEvent>();
    }

>     @NgModule({
>         imports: [DxButtonModule, CommonModule],
>         declarations: [TooltipComponent],
>         exports: [TooltipComponent]
>     })
>     
>     export class TooltipModule {}

Reviewer 2: Let's remove the empty line between the decorator and the class:

```suggestion
    @NgModule({
        imports: [DxButtonModule, CommonModule],
        declarations: [TooltipComponent],
        exports: [TooltipComponent]
    })
    export class TooltipModule {}
```

                <DxButton
                    class="dx-tooltip-appointment-item-delete-button"
                    icon="trash"
                    stylingMode="text"
                    @click="onClick"
                ></DxButton>
            </div>
        </div>
    </template>

    <script>
    import {DxButton} from 'devextreme-vue/button';
    import { employees } from './data.js';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxButton,
        },
        data() {
            return {
                employees,
            };
        },
        methods: {
            onClick(e){
                this.$emit('delete-button-click', e);
            },
        },
        props: {
            data: {
                type: Object,
                default: () => {},
            },
            markerColor: {
                type: String
            },
            isDeleteButtonExist: {
                type: Boolean
            }
        },
    };
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React, { useCallback } from 'react';

    import 'devextreme/dist/css/dx.light.css';

>     import Scheduler from 'devextreme-react/scheduler';

Reviewer 2: Is it ok that we don't show imports in Angular but show them in React?

Author: Yes

    import Tooltip from "./Tooltip.js";

    const App = () => {

>         const schedulerRef =  useRef(null);

Reviewer 2: Let's remove additional space:

```suggestion
        const schedulerRef = useRef(null);
```

        const appointmentTooltip = useCallback((props) => {
            const scheduler = schedulerRef.current;

>             const getDisabled = (employeeID) => employees.find((employee) => {
>                 return employee.id === employeeID;
>             }).disabled;
> 
>             const getColor = (employeeID) => employees.find((employee) => {
>                 return employee.id === employeeID;
>             }).color;
> 
>             const color = getColor(props.appointmentData.employeeID);

Reviewer 2: Let's change it to:
```suggestion
            // NOTE: You can get color from resources with props.appointmentData.resouceId
            const color = '#337ab7';
```

Please check the text in the NOTE comment, maybe we can write this sentence better :)

>             const isDeleteButtonExist = !getDisabled(props.appointmentData.employeeID) &&
>                 ((scheduler.instance.option("editing") &&
>                     scheduler.instance.option("editing.allowDeleting") === true) ||
>                     scheduler.instance.option("editing") === true);

Reviewer 2: Let's change these lines as we do it in the jQuery code snippet:

```suggestion
            const isAppointmentDisabled = data.appointmentData.disabled;
            const isDeleteAllowed = (scheduler.option('editing') && scheduler.option('editing.allowDeleting') === true)
              || scheduler.option('editing') === true;
            const isDeleteButtonExist = !isAppointmentDisabled && isDeleteAllowed;
```

            const onDeleteButtonClick = (e) => {
                scheduler.instance.deleteAppointment(props.appointmentData);
                e.event.stopPropagation();
                scheduler.instance.hideAppointmentTooltip();
            };

            return (
                <Tooltip
                    {...props}
                    isDeleteButtonExist={isDeleteButtonExist}
                    onDeleteButtonClick={onDeleteButtonClick}
                    color={color}
                />
            );
        }, []);

        render(
            <Scheduler ...
                ref={schedulerRef}
                appointmentTooltipRender={appointmentTooltip}
            >
            </Scheduler>
        );
    }

    export default App;

    <!-- tab: Tooltip.js -->
    import React, { useCallback } from 'react';

    const  Tooltip = (props) => {
        const onDeleteButtonClick = useCallback((e) => {
            props.onDeleteButtonClick(e);

>         }, []);

Reviewer 2: We should mention the ```props.onDeleteButtonClick``` in the ```useCallback``` dependencies array:

```suggestion
        }, [props.onDeleteButtonClick]);
```

Otherwise, if we change the function in the props, the old one still be called on click :)

---

> If you want to change tooltips appearance, implement a custom template with the `appointmentTooltipTemplate` property. Refer to the [Customize Appointment Tooltip](/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/Scheduler/Appointments/Customize_Appointment_Tooltip/) section for details.

Reviewer 3: If you want to change **tooltip** appearance OR If you want to change **tooltips'** appearance
